 #1 VARIOUS SENSORS:-               
1. Finger Print Sensor Module :
These modules come with FLASH memory to store the fingerprints and work with any microcontroller. These modules can be added to security systems, door locks, time attendance systems, and much more.
2.Alcohol Sensor :
These sensors detect the presence of alcohol gases at concentrations from 0.05 mg/L to 10 mg/L. The sensitive material used for this sensor is SnO2, whose conductivity is lower in clean air. It's conductivity increases as the concentration of alcohol gases increases.
3.Colour sensor module :
Colour sensor module is based on TCS3200 RGB sensor chip and 4 white LEDs. It can detect and measure a nearly limitless range of visible colours. Applications include test strip reading, sorting by colour, ambient light sensing and calibration, and colour matching.
4.Metal Sensor or  Metal Detector :
metal detector is an electronic instrument that detects the presence of metal in. Metal detectors are useful for finding metal inclusions hidden within objects, or metal objects buried underground. They often consist of a handheld unit with a sensor probe which can be swept over the ground or other objects.
5.Temperature And Humidity Sensor Module :
The DHT11 uses an internal thermistor and a capacitive humidity sensor to determine environmental conditions, an internal chip is responsible for converting readings to a serial digital signal.
6.Gprs Gsm Module :
A GSM GPRS Module is used to enable communication between a microcontroller (or a microprocessor) and the GSM / GPRS Network. Here, GSM stands for Global System for Mobile Communication and GPRS stands for General Packet Radio Service.
7.RF 433MHz Transmitter/Receiver :
An RF transmitter receives serial data and transmit it wirelessly through RF through its antenna connected at pin4. The transmission occurs at the rate of 1Kbps - 10Kbps. The transmitted data is received by an RF receiver operating at the same frequency as that of the transmitter.

8.Accelerometer Module :
Accelerometer can be used for tilt-sensing applications as well as dynamic acceleration resulting from motion, shock, or vibration - The ADXL335 gives complete 3-axis acceleration measurement. 
9.IR Infrared Flame Detection sensor :
The IR detector can detect low-frequency flickering IR radiation ranging from 1 to 15 Hz during combustion. It uses the IR flame flicker techniques, which enables the sensor to operate through a layer of oil, water vapour, dust, or ice.
10.Speed sensor Module :
Here is a motor speed sensor module, the major goal is to check the rate of an electric motor. The module can be used in association with a microcontroller for motor speed detection, pulse count, position limit, etc. In principle, any rate meter simply measures the rate at which some event occurs.
11.Humidity and Rain Detection sensor :
It can be used as a switch when raindrop falls through the raining board and also for measuring rainfall intensity.
12.MQ-2 Gas sensor :
MQ2 gas sensor is an electronic sensor used for sensing the concentration of gases in the air such as LPG, propane, methane, hydrogen, alcohol, smoke and carbon monoxide.
13.Rotary Encoder Module :
Rotary encoders are used in a wide range of applications that require monitoring or control, or both, of mechanical systems, including industrial controls, robotics, photographic lenses, computer input devices such as optomechanical mice and trackballs, controlled stress rheometers, and rotating radar platforms.
14.Digital thermal sensor :
Temperature Sensors measure the amount of heat energy or even coldness that is generated by an object or system, allowing us to "sense" or detect any physical change to that temperature producing either an analogue or digital output.
15. Digital Barometric Pressure Sensor :
The barometric sensor, also commonly known as the barometric air pressure sensor (BAP), is a type of engine management sensor commonly found on many vehicles. It is responsible for measuring the atmospheric pressure of the environment that the vehicle is driving in.
16.Soil Moisture Sensor :
Soil hygrometer humidity detection module is used to detect moisture. This is very sensitive to the ambient humidity. When the soil is dry the module outputs a high level, otherwise outputs low. This sensor can be used to make an automatic watering system, so that garden plants can be watered without people to manage.
17.sound sensor module :
The sound sensor is one type of module used to notice the sound. Generally, this module is used to detect the intensity of sound. The applications of this module mainly include switch, security, as well as monitoring. The accuracy of this sensor can be changed for the ease of usage.
18.Ultrasonic Sensor :
Ultrasonic sensors can detect movement of targets and measure the distance to them in many automated factories and process plants.
19.IR sensor module :
The IR sensor module consists mainly of the IR Transmitter and Receiver, Op Amp, Variable Resistor (Trimmer pot), output LED in brief. IR LED Transmitter. IR LED emits light, in the range of Infrared frequency. IR light is invisible to us as its wavelength (700 nm - 1mm) is much higher than the visible light range.
20.Photodiode Light Sensor Module :
Photodiode module is most sensitive to the ambient light, generally used to detect the brightness of the ambient light intensity, photoresistor sensor module Universal In most cases, the difference between the two is that photodiode module directional, can be perceived the fixed direction of the light source.
21.Photoresistor Photoelectric Sensor Module :
LDR sensor module is used to detect the intensity of light. It is associated with both analogue output pin and digital output pin labelled as AO and DO respectively on the board. When there is light, the resistance of LDR will become low according to the intensity of light.
22.Hall Sensor Module :
Based on the Hall Effect, a hall sensor is one that varies its output voltage in response to a magnetic field. Hall sensors are used for proximity switching, positioning, speed detection, and current sensing applications.

23.Pulse sensor module :
The pulse sensor module has a light which helps in measuring the pulse rate. When we place the finger on the pulse sensor, the light reflected will change based on the volume of blood inside the capillary blood vessels. During a heartbeat.
24.HC-SR501 Pyroelectric Infrared Sensor :
The PIR Sensor module allows you to sense motion. It is almost always used to detect the motion of a human body within the sensor range.
25.SW-420 Motion sensor :
This is an SW-420 vibration module, which can work from 3.3V to the 5V. The sensor uses LM393 comparator to detect the vibration over a threshold point and provide digital data, Logic Low or Logic High, 0 or 1.
26.Knock Sensor :
A Knock Sensor or a Vibration Sensor is a simple device that detects vibrations or shocks from knocking or tapping it. It is basically an electronic switch which normally open. When it detects any shock or vibration, it closes (for that moment and returns back to its default open position).
27.Bluetooth Module :
The Bluetooth technology manages the communication channel of the wireless part. The Bluetooth modules can transmit and receives the data wirelessly by using two devices. The Bluetooth module can receive and transmits the data from a host system with the help of the host controller interface (HCI).
28.Joystick Sensor Module :
The joystick is an input device. Analog joystick is sometimes called as Control Stick. It is used to control the pointer movement in 2-dimension axis.
29.Flex sensor :
It is also known as a bend sensor. It measures the amount of deflection or bending. resistance of the sensor element is varied by bending the surface of the sensor.so we get various resistance at various deflection angle of the sensor. And it work under 3.3v - 5v dc.
#2 programming of NodeMCU in Arduino IDE.
Setp1- to write code of  NodeMCU in Arduino IDE we should instal the NodeMCU  ESP8266 board in Arduino IDE.
For installation follow the video link -  https://youtu.be/OC9wYhv6juM
Above picture is GPIOs of NodeMCU.
GPIO - General-purpose input/output
NodeMCU pins are numbered differently than internal GPIO notations of ESP8266 as shown in above picture.
Generally 9 pins are used for i/o I .e.D0 to D8 (the pins are in the red box)
RX, TX, SD2, SD3 pins are not mostly used as GPIOs since they are used for another internal process. (the pins are in the blue box ) but we can use these pin as i/o.
#3 An Arduino sketch for LED blinking on pin D7 or GPIO13 of NodeMCU Dev Kit :
int ledpin=13; //d7 in NodeMCU board
void setup() {
  // initialize digital pin LED_PIN as an output.
  pinMode(ledpin, OUTPUT);
  Serial.begin(9600);
}
void loop() {
  digitalWrite(ledpin, HIGH);  //on the led
  Serial.println("LED ON");
  delay(2000);                //wait for 2 sec.
  digitalWrite(ledpin, LOW);    //off the led
  Serial.println("LED OFF");
  delay(2000);                     //wait for 2 sec .
}

#Bibliography :
https://www.finoit.com/blog/top-15-sensor-types-used-iot/
https://iot4beginners.com/commonly-used-sensors-in-the-internet-of-things-iot-devices-and-their-application/
https://youtu.be/WKUfcxjvUI4
https://youtu.be/yvlqQ4ow1E8
https://youtu.be/ree6_dDqL7A
https://youtu.be/flLMMHCNkQE
https://www.electronicwings.com/nodemcu/nodemcu-gpio-with-arduino-ide
